---
title: 18F Front-end Guide
permalink: /
---
Welcome to the 18F front-end guide! This is where we keep all of our
guidelines for front-end design and development.

## What is Front end

The front-end guild did a series of exercises to determine the
fundamental differences between the front-end design and front-end
developer roles at 18F. Using [some of our own research
methods](https://methods.18f.gov), the front-end guild came up with
the following recommendations on knowing the difference between the
two disciplines:

**Front-end designers** design, write, and implement the
presentational code base for websites and applications. They should
have a clear understanding of design fundamentals and systems, such
as interface style guides, responsive design, grid systems, front-end
frameworks, and accessibility best practices. Front-end designers
should feel comfortable creating and implementing design systems
using semantic HTML5, CSS/Sass and be able to assist in debugging
this aspect of the code base.

**Front-end developers** architect, write, and implement the
functional code base for websites and applications. They should have
a clear understanding of client-side render and response, such as
HTTP methods, API consumption, the browser loading/rendering
pipeline, and accessibility best practices. Front-end developers
should feel comfortable developing and implementing client-side
interactions and frameworks using semantic HTML5 and JavaScript, and
should be able to help with debugging, testing, and performance
optimization of the code base.
